just one day after an Israeli attack
killed 45 people in a camp in Rafa in
southern Gaza the city's main hospital
has been forced to shut down Kuwait
hospitals where most of the victims of
that Sunday night attack were taken the
director of the hospital closed the
facility hours ago citing security
concerns earlier on Monday an area just
outside Kuwait hospital was hit by an
Israeli attack two of its medical staff
were killed eyewitnesses say the victims
were hit by fire from an Israeli
aircraft just out inside the hospital
Gates the injured must now be taken to
field
hospitals Israeli forces have damaged
destroyed or occupied 24 hospitals in
the strip since October the 7th so now
out of gaza's 36 hospitals only six are
still functioning and then only
partially all of them lack critical
supplies staff and Medicine the alali
Baptist Hospital is the only one open
with limited capacity in Gaza City in
the north of the strip in central Gaza
four other hospitals Al AXA Al AA NASA
and the European are caring for the bulk
of the wounded and the sick the AL
emirati hospital is operating in Rafa in
the south of the strip supplies for the
remaining functioning hospitals are
critically low the alali Baptist
Hospital in Gaza City received a
lifeline on Monday with delivery of
medicines Health supplies and fuel from
the World Health Organization Israel has
been blocking life-saving supplies from
reaching Health Facilities across the
strip and is reporting from alaka
hospital in central Gaza where fuel is
in desperately short
supply there were supposed to be 200
trucks including four fuel trucks to
enter the Gaza Strip till this point
nothing entered the Gaza Strip we're
trying we were trying all day to follow
up what happened to these trucks and
there's no any confirmed reports that
they made a a step into Gaza but uh uh
we just talked to uh the health
officials in Al AA hospital and they
said they did not receive any fuel uh so
far and it they are going to witness a
very catastrophic situation if this
continues they have to uh uh receive
fuel as soon as possible especially
tomorrow let me show you uh right now
how the situation is first this is the
entrance of the hospital and where
people are um receiving their Med
medical uh treatments some of the
medical uh some of the patients are
receiving their Medical Treatments
outside the hospital because the weather
is so hot the the hospital is packed and
overwhelmed with patients and here are
some of the patients that are um uh
having like staying outside because
they're saying that it's very
suffocating inside of the hospital a lot
of Palestinians rely on this Hospital
if the hospital does not receive any
fuel in the next 24 hours hundreds of
Palestinian patients are going to be in
risk of death joining me now is Dr
Muhammad T he's an orthopedic surgeon
from London volunteering in Rafa with
faral scientific it's a charity
organization good to have you with us on
Al jazer um I understand that you and
members of the organization left Gaza
about a week ago but I believe you still
in contact with people on the ground
particularly people in Kuwait hospital
are you able to give us an indication of
what the situation is like
there uh hi good evening thank you for
having me yes I can I can say that uh
the situation is very dire um of course
as you know the Kuwaiti hospital had a
direct attack uh to its uh out side
perimeter in which uh two staff were
critically injured uh even
killed and uh it's the evacuation on the
hospital has been forced and so now you
have uh the Kuwaiti field Hospital in Al
maasi bring uh being prepared but it's
not quite ready as far as I understand
and uh as we speak uh right now I've got
off the phone to some of my colleagues
who I worked with at the eh and they are
experiencing artillery fire and
quadcopters attacking very nearby they
are in fear for their lives and we are
talking about healthc Care Professionals
here talking about regular people like
you and me they are holding on to their
children in the basement of their home
and hoping that nothing nothing hits
them it's a dire situation uh of course
the you know this is in tala suan which
is in the west of Rafa this is an area
which has not been evacuated and yet
there is very Fierce very Fierce attacks
happening as we speak um so the Kuwaiti
hospital was evacuated the the main
hospital and they are moving to al-
masasi where they have a field Hospital
which is not quite ready and in the
meantime not only that but quad copters
as far as I know and I've seen some
footage to confirm this are uh
restricting the movement of ambulances
so those that are injured cannot even
receive help uh the medical situation in
Gaza really is in a dire State I mean I
cannot tell you enough how terrible it
is uh we need to do more the
International Community needs to do more
um we need to allow for medical uh
Personnel to enter Gaza we need to allow
for medical Provisions to enter Gaza all
these hospitals are
experiencing uh diminishing supplies of
very critical medicines um and also fuel
to run we saw very recently with Al AA
Hospital uh that they were nearing the
end of their uh functionality as their
fuel supply dwindled into nothing um so
the situation is terrible there and I
really I urge everybody and I urge the
International Community to please act
you know we're advocating for Humanity
here we're just advocating for the
preservation of human life and dignity
and so you know it words start to fail
me at this point the Kuwaiti hospital is
one of the key medical facilities in
Rafa we know that Israel is focusing its
attacks um on Rafa with the closure of
that hospital what do do you think is
going to be the impact on medical
facilities and the ability to care for
the sick and the injured in Rafa as
those attacks
continue so when I was in Gaza I was
based at the European Gaza hospital and
uh many a night when we would see and
hear the strikes in Rafa uh we knew that
the casualties were all going to the
Kuwaiti hospital and at times they were
simply overwhelmed but there were there
was no safe way to bring those patients
to the European Gaza hospital so the the
Kuwaiti Hospital in the South was the
main port for all those that are being
injured or or worse and now that we have
the closure of this hospital really the
people are rougher are in in in severe
danger they are lacking access to
critical Health Care this is really a
dire situation that I cannot convey
enough how terrible it is um not only
that but you you must remember that t
sulan is not an area as far as I know
that has been evacuated according to the
colleagues that I have there and they
are experiencing uh artillery strikes
very nearby they are living in fear for
their lives these are nurses these are
doctors these are my colleagues and it's
just a dire situation if they are hurt
where do they go where do which hospital
do they go to so the field Hospital in
Al maasi is not quite ready it doesn't
have the capability to care for the
injured for the critically uh uh uh sick
either it's not quite ready and it's not
set up for this service so really what
we're experiencing here is a multi-prong
attack unfortunately whereby not only
are the people being attacked directly
but they're also being uh blocked from
receiving critical uh medical services
and it's not just a question of treating
uh injuries and sickness there is the
present risk of disease spreading as
well because of course the conditions
that people are being treated in now in
field hospitals are far from sterile and
far from
controlled um put it this way uh even
within the European Gaza Hospital uh it
was not uncommon for us to experience um
many dire situations of of a lack of s
sterile conditions and uh provision of
appropriate wound care I mean I I
encountered patients on the ward who had
external fixators applied to them
because of fractures and they were
sitting in a pile of pus uh with with
precious SES going into their into even
their hip socket uh it was a very
terrible and and when I remember this
story it's actually of a very young
person and he was emaciated and it was
really a terrible a sight because you
know I looked at this individual and I
thought my God this is a human being for
God's sake and look what they have been
reduced to so if you have these
conditions within an institution like
the European Gaza hospital let me remind
you set up by by us in Europe um then
you can imagine what the conditions
might be like in a in a field hospital
where they don't have access to clean
water and the rest of it if the Israeli
military action in Rafa and indeed The
Wider uh area of Gaza continues at the
rate that it currently is what are your
concerns about the impact on
Palestinians as the medical facilities
dwindle I mean words fail me really I I
fear for the people of uh Gaza I fear
for the people of Rafa um theyve been
forced from the north to the south from
the south to the West there is no safe
place left anymore um
without access to Medical Provisions
they will suffer they will die
unnecessarily um even when I was there
we we would work tirelessly on some
patients we would operate on them in the
middle of the night we would save their
lives and then they would die because
they didn't have access to dialysis for
example and so sometimes it's only you
know the system is only as good it as
its weakest link so if that fails the
whole system collapses and there are
many many weak links in this chain right
now either the supply provision of care
sterile conditions safe conditions and
with the intensifying of the attacks we
really find oursel in a situation where
Humanity really is being extinguished
there and I call upon all International
Players to do their part to please do
more to bring this war to an end please
help us to help the Palestinians please
allow medical personnel back into Gaza
as soon as possible we need to be there
we need to be able to take medical
supplies with us there is now a a
restriction so for example when we first
arrived uh via the Rafa Crossing we all
individually lugged around 10 suitcases
full of Medical
Aid uh now if uh emps want to enter they
can only take two for a 3-week mission
you cannot what can you do with two
suitcases full of Aid absolutely nothing
that will be extinguished within matter
of days so please for the sake of
humanity we need to do more we need to
help them this is a really a dire
situation and it's unpalatable for any
decent human being I mentioned that you
had been in with a charity organization
for a scientific previously are you
going to attempt to get back into Gaza
to
help I am actively trying every single
day to return um and we are hoping that
we can coordinate our mission with feder
scientific and the who uh to enter as
soon as possible those people need us we
are willing servants uh we we all we
want to do really is to help uh the
people of Gazza for us this is an honor
they are a people that are wonderful
people they are being starved they are
being killed through no fault of their
own these people that I refer to are
apolitical they have no affiliations
with any political organizations they
are just families they're just
colleagues and we really need to do more
um it's really not good enough what's
going on right now uh I mean the
International Community needs to exert
more pressure I really call upon them I
call upon our American uh Partners I
call upon my British government I call
upon the European Union please do more
please allow us to help these people our
cause is a human humanitarian one we we
don't have any political affiliations we
simply want to serve these people and
help them and protect them Dr Muhammad T
thank you very much indeed for being
with us on Al
jaer thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler